♪
Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
Saving the games
and saving the athletes
was not like
the priority. right?
It'’s like saving CrossFit.
CrossFit games started
as a back yard barbecue in 2007
and grew to an amazing spectacle
with hundreds of thousands
competing every year.
It'’s broken right now.
♪
Well. we'’re in Coronaland.
The whole world was shut down
by COVID-19
and the fitness industry
took a huge hit.
Eighty-nine percent of all gyms
across the globe closed.
and 96% of all gyms
in the United States closed.
♪
The event that inspired millions
wasn'’t about to cancel
or postpone.
I just want to compete.
and I want to be proud
of all my hard work.
But could they put on an event
during a global pandemic
worthy of crowning
the Fittest on Earth?
♪
[crackling]
Yeah. it'’s pretty wild.
It'’s crazy. here we are
a few months away
from the games.
A month ago.
I was totally planning
to have the games
in Madison again.
and then all this craziness
happened with COVID
and the current climate
of the world.
And we started talking
about cancelling the games.
Some people suggested
doing a small private event.
a small private event here.
and we started exploring that.
and it looked like
it'’s something we can pull off.
it looks like
there'’s a chance we can do it.
♪
We won'’t have fans.
we won'’t have jumbotrons.
we won'’t have
so many of the things
we normally have.
We'’re gonna flex from Madison
to here with limited time
to save the games essentially.
The message
we'’re trying to send here
with still doing
some sort of competition
is we'’re gonna fight.
our affiliates are gonna fight.
the community is gonna fight.
and we'’re gonna get through
this pandemic.
we'’re gonna get through
this craziness.
and we'’re all gonna
come out of it much stronger.
♪
It'’ll be wild for the athletes.
but there'’s one thing.
no matter how different
everything feels.
we'’re still gonna find
the fittest man
and woman alive.
♪
They'’re in for
a fucking wild ride.
They'’re gonna enter
this weekend.
it'’s gonna feel very different.
and they'’re gonna exit
the weekend going.
"What the fuck just happened?"
♪
[indistinct chatter]
What up. dude?
Day One. baby. we'’re good.
Ready to get the show
on the road. Year seven.
Have you taken
your temperature this morning?
I haven'’t taken
my own temperature.
but I'’ve taken other people's.
97.3.
Blast me.
96.8.
-Mat. how are we doing?
-What up. what up?
-You sleep good?
-Dude. eight hours last night.
-Eight?
-Yeah.
You guys get good sleep?
You get some good sleep too?
I was in bed
for a long time. yeah.
-Are you guys in the same room?
-Yeah.
-Do you keep her up?
-I'’d like to think I don't.
but I reckon I probably do.
-You think he does?
-Yeah. he does.
Do you know all the events
for today?
Not yet. no.
When you walk out. guys.
the shuttle straight ahead
is for men
and the shuttle to your right
is for women.
♪
Those athletes are showing up
to the Ranch
for the first two events
of a five-event day.
I don'’t think we've had
a five-event day
at the CrossFit Games
in a very long time.
so it'’s really exciting.
There is gonna be a push
to test it
beyond what I think
they even imagined.
they'’re expecting
or how they expect to be pushed.
So I'’m really excited.
Have you competed
at the Ranch before?
What'’s it like being out here
at the Ranch
for the first time?
It smells like a farm.
The videos of the hill.
they don'’t give justice
to the elevation.
I was surprised
how steep it looks.
That'’s gonna be fun.
Rob made this
little brush thing
that folds over the bar
and he roughs it.
It works good.
[inaudible]?
What was that?
I'’m not doing that again.
Just one time.
♪
This is where it all started.
This is the birthplace
of the CrossFit Games.
There'’s always hallowed ground.
You know. Lambeau Field
in football.
Madison Square Garden
in basketball.
The Ranch is
that hallowed ground
for the CrossFit Games.
It'’s really cool to go back
to the Ranch
just because of all
the history there.
"The Ranch."
You know. for me. it'’s just
another competition venue.
A lot of people do see it
as like a nice tie.
return to home and all that.
and that'’s cool.
and I'’m glad people do.
For me. it was just
let'’s get this done.
let'’s make it happen.
let'’s do it.
This year.
the first day'’s events
were all of the events
that the athletes competing
in the 2007 games completed
throughout the weekend.
2007 reloaded is what
will kick things off here
and it is an homage
to that hopper event
that took place
way back in 2007.
♪
[beep]
And with that.
the 2020 Reebok CrossFit Games
are underway at the Ranch
in Aromas. California.
Like. the very first
three. two. one. go.
and then everyone
starts rowing
and just like
the "whoosh. whoosh."
and you'’re like.
"Where'’s the music?"
There was no one.
There wasn'’t even music.
You could hear everything.
You could hear them
breathing hard.
You could hear the weights
hitting them in the shoulders.
♪
It felt like it was glamping
in a way.
We'’re in the rugged. raw still
ranchy atmosphere.
but then it had
the beautiful bar
with the beautiful weights.
and everything was clean
and pristine.
Athletes working through
that 1.500-meter row
to start this off.
and then it'’s five rounds
of the shoulder-to-overhead
and the bar muscle-ups.
With only five.
there is no room for error.
You got to protect that pace
on the row
and then make sure you stay
unbroken and efficient
on the later parts.
It'’s ridiculous
to go fast on the row.
That'’s just a buy-in.
You just have to be able
to get off the rower
plus or minus a few seconds
of the other and you'’re good.
And Haley Adams will be
the first woman off the rower.
She is on to her first round
of ten bar muscle-ups
-and getting right to work.
-When I heard the workout.
I was super excited
because I really like
shoulder-to-overhead
and low bar muscle-ups.
so I knew I could do well
on that workout.
I was the last person
off the row.
which wasn'’t too big
of a surprise.
I was kind of expecting it.
♪
Fraser ripping through
those seven
shoulder-to-overheads.
Thirty-two. he'’ll be done
with his first round.
He is done and Mat Fraser
now in front.
There was quite a bit
of separation.
You could tell very quickly
who attacked the workout
appropriately
for their skill set
and who didn'’t.
♪
I like how Haley
is still sticking with Tia.
Last year. I was still
trying to take grasp of it
because I just couldn'’t believe
that I was just keeping up
with them
and competing
right next to them
and even beating them
in workouts.
I looked up to them
and I still do
because they'’re older than me
and they'’ve set the path
to the sport.
Fraser is on his third round
of shoulder-to-overhead.
He has yet to break
any of these up.
And he is in the lead
all by himself right now.
I really like the tempo that
Medeiros is coming out with.
♪
Being a rookie
at the CrossFit Games
and already trying to take it
to the field.
To throw down with those guys
in the very first workout
was--was crazy.
♪
Two women battle right now
as Tia Toomey sits in first.
Haley Adams is in second.
And now Toomey is paying
close attention
-to what Adams is doing.
-That is the game
that you play when
there'’s only five in the field.
is Tia was
literally standing there
and waiting for Haley
to finish her jerks
before she got up onto the bar.
It'’s the start of the weekend.
You don'’t want to go
and sell yourself
if you don'’t really need to.
When you can grasp
and pause in a workout
and feel where everybody is
and visually see
where your competitors are.
you can see them
on your left and right.
you know you got control
of the event.
♪
Toomey back to the barbell
for the final time.
is in absolutely no hurry here
as she has built
a significant lead
over Haley Adams.
Fraser making the trip
back to the barbell
for the final time.
Fraser'’s gone unbroken
through all four sets.
Trying to do it again
here in Round Five.
Failed the last jerk.
That was a surprise.
-Giving up.
-Wow!
Rare no rep for Mat Fraser.
Wow!
I watched Mat do
his last round.
He failed his last rep.
and I was like.
"Oh. you know.
what happened there?"
Oh. Toomey. like Mat Fraser.
fails on the last rep.
When Tia failed
the exact same rep.
it was just comical.
Go figure. we train together.
Yeah. we'’re definitely
training partners.
They'’re too similar.
Or I'’ve done something where.
like. "What did we do?
Did we just do too much
strict press
with the left-hand side?"
I had no idea how dominant
they were going to be.
Granted. it was
at the field of five.
Would it have been different
with 30? Yes.
Would the outcome
have been different? No way.
Justin Medeiros
will take second.
To be able to come out
in that first workout
and kind of prove that
to people.
like. "Hey. like.
I'’m here to compete."
was pretty awesome.
So now Haley Adams
looking to take second.
Ended up doing pretty well.
I got second
and ran my race
and executed it perfectly.
Davidsdottir is done.
so Katrin Davidsdottir
with a mini comeback
as she will take fourth place.
She'’s had
a tough training year.
She hurt her back.
she isn'’t gonna do
as much training
as she normally would.
I was very timid
on that workout
and I think I was aware
that there was no music.
I was aware that it was
only five of us there.
And I think I was anything
actually but present
on the floor.
Brooke Wells will
have to settle for fifth.
I felt like my body
was literally going
into failure at the end.
I'’ve never struggled that much
with a 145-pound jerk
in my life.
-How'’d that go?
-Went well.
Shoulder-to-overhead
a little bit tougher
than I was expecting.
I paced it well enough
in the beginning
to buy myself a mistake.
After the first two rounds.
that'’s all it was.
It was just me sitting. waiting.
Ugh. not so good.
Started off.
was feeling really good.
Um. I don'’t think
I made any mistakes.
I just think
it was on around three
I failed
the shoulder-to-overhead
in the middle
and that just kind of was like
where the game changed for me.
Lot of us finished
on the podium twice
after 30th place finish
in the first event.
-You only got fifth. dude.
-True.
My ankles are probably
more swollen. Big Bertha.
Big Bertha. that'’s what
your ankle is called?
Yeah.
She gets a little big sometimes.
She needs to calm down. though.
♪
Event Two.
the corn sack sprint.
Three hundred twenty meters
up the hill at the Ranch.
If you could think of one event
at the CrossFit Games.
specifically in Aromas.
that most people talk about
being the toughest.
most painful event ever.
it would be
the hill sprint in 2009.
♪
There was so much hype
behind this sprint up the hill.
I watched videos
of people doing it before.
and you don'’t realize
how big that hill is
until you see it for yourself.
This is one of the workouts
that is very special
because you can
only do it there.
A part of me was preparing
for absolute hell.
So there might be.
right about there.
really steep and really narrow.
Justin Medeiros trains
this kind of thing all the time.
We'’ll see how he performs here.
Everyone knew there was
gonna be a hill sprint.
a sandbag hill sprint in there.
Me and Adam did a lot of work
on it. prepared for it.
♪
Mat Fraser in the white
overall leaders jersey.
And 50 pounds
in that corn sack.
and Justin Medeiros
is out front early.
Running across
the first parking lot.
I'’m in dead last.
Event Two
for the women underway.
Tia Toomey. like Mat Fraser.
looking to go two for two
to start things off here.
Sprinting 320 meters
on a flat is very appropriate.
but doing that uphill.
you need to tame it down
a little bit.
especially at the start
where it'’s a little easier
and you are fresh.
This is nearly double
the distance.
two-thirds of what
the weight was.
It was 70 pounds back in 2009.
♪
You'’ve got to make
your move here
to get ahead of everybody
once you start the climb.
You know it'’s gonna hurt.
so you just have to accept
that pain
and know it'’s gonna be over
before you can even. like.
realize how much pain
you'’re in.
Kind of went flat. up. flat.
and then it was
just a steep hill
all the way to the finish.
♪
They said it was like 320 meters
or whatever it was.
and I'’m like.
"This hill is huge."
You have that bag
on your shoulders
weighing you down. I mean.
you'’re breathing so hard.
you feel like
you'’re just not moving.
not going anywhere.
♪
Once you'’re at the base
of that hill.
it'’s just all incline
after that.
so it'’s like. all right.
put the pedal down.
When we got halfway up.
Fraser was trying
to box me out.
just taking the hill.
I'’m right behind him.
I come up on the side.
I'’m like. "Dude."
All I hear is.
"Can I please pass you?"
I expected it to be Medeiros.
but it was Kwant coming up.
And he was just so polite
about it.
I was like.
"I can'’t not let you by."
He thought I said.
"Please move."
and then he actually
moved over for me
just '’cause I said "please."
Tia Toomey is out front
and looks like
she might be widening
her lead here.
Look how steep that incline is.
♪
We got to the trees
where it started
getting a little bit harder.
and that'’s when I remember
being behind Tia.
I wanted to dig and make a move
and really sprint up the last
and the legs are just--
there was no sprint.
there was no move.
there was no nothing.
and everything kind of stayed
in one line after that.
♪
Mat Fraser looking to go
two for two
as he is out in front.
Sam Kwant is in second.
Noah Ohlsen is in third.
and it'’s Medeiros and Adler.
And Fraser is gonna go
two for two on Day One.
Sam Kwant is gonna take second.
Fraser goes two for two.
Toomey goes two for two.
So the champions
dominating early.
Now here comes
Katrin Davidsdottir.
We are almost at the top
and I was right
at Katrin'’s feet.
I was so close.
I think Haley dropped her bag.
♪
They told us that near the top.
there'’s two trees
and it'’s basically gonna be
single file.
And then she fell
and she dropped her bag.
and I'’m like. "Perfect!
I can get around her."
And I'’m like.
"There'’s nowhere for me to go."
I'’m holding onto this tree
with one hand
and my sandbag in the other.
and I'’m just holding on
for dear life
and just kept falling over.
♪
Now Pearce will finish fourth.
and Brooke Wells
is gonna take fifth.
Eventually. I just got
on my hands and knees
and just started
bear crawling up this hill
with the bag on my back.
I started in fifth place
and kept that
almost until the very end.
and then...
Right before the finish line.
I got passed.
And Adler. at the last second.
just ahead of Medeiros.
That was a rookie mistake
for Medeiros.
That left a very bitter taste
in my mouth.
Those are lessons
that you learn at the games
that can'’t be taught
just through communication.
It can only be learned
through experience.
I'’m glad it happened early on
on Day One
'’cause I think it fired him up
a little bit
and made him hungry
the rest of the weekend.
Fraser just keeps
piling '’em up.
21st career event win.
As is customary
at the CrossFit Games.
Mat Fraser is starting
to run away with things early.
That was the worst I felt
after any event.
You'’re like a young puppy
trying to figure out
its new legs. you know?
♪
Can'’t have him win
all the events.
I don'’t want that.
I don'’t give a shit
who finishes first.
I just want not him.
Get him.
That was pretty rough. though.
Really rough.
Just I'’m glad I didn't have
anyone on my tail
'’cause it would've been hard
to pick it up.
♪
I was doing a great job
of boxing out Samuel.
and then he asked so politely.
"Can I please pass?"
I was like I can'’t not.
-But he finished first?
-No.
-I didn'’t see the thing.
-I'’m ready to have the games
just be five men
and five women.
-Yeah?
-It'’d be fun.
It was really cool seeing--
being able to hear
the athletes
and being able to like hear
their struggles
and almost hear
their inner thoughts
during the events
'’cause there's no music.
no spectators cheering on. it
was deep.
What'’s it like with no
spectators?
Fucking love it.
I fucking love it.
Why is that?
It'’s how we train
every day. dude.
No one else listens
to themselves out of breath.
no one else listens
to the thoughts in their head.
They always have something
to distract '’em.
Not Tia and I.
All right. so we got to hurry.
we got to get over
to the other venue.
they'’re gonna start
the. uh. total?
So this has been
a completely unorthodox year.
We started the CrossFit Games
with a much larger field
of athletes.
but because of what
was happening with COVID
and gathering sizes.
we ran stage one
of the CrossFit Games
as a virtual competition.
To add more things in flux
in this really fluid
environment.
we'’re gonna change the formula
for how you qualify
for the games.
Phase one was going to take us
from 30 men and 30 women
down to five men and five women
that would head out
to California
to compete in phase two
which would be the finals
of the games.
♪
The challenge of phase one
was really making a competition
that was fair and equitable
to all athletes
in terms of their place
in the world.
♪
We didn'’t have competitors
next to us.
We had no idea
what the possibilities were
until the very end
of the weekend.
♪
Cut to Event One of stage one
of the CrossFit Games.
it'’s Fran. it's 21 thrusters.
21 pull-ups.
three rounds back to back.
♪
And Mat Fraser
dusted the field.
♪
[laughing]
Mat Fraser'’s time is 3:08.
Second place. 3:55.
♪
My jaw dropped to the floor.
That was exciting to me.
So by then. I was hooked.
♪
Hi. everybody. welcome to
The Road to the Ranch
Recap Show.
-I'’m Sean Woodland.
-They had a desk show.
It'’s the first time
we'’ve seen that since 2018.
♪
The final reveal
for who made it in
to the final five
was pretty exciting because...
-Whoa!
-...for the first time
since the changes happened.
there was a clear line
that was understood
by everybody going in
as to who was moving on.
The top five men
were Mat Fraser.
If I'’m signing up.
you'’re fucked.
♪
What more can you say
about Mat Fraser?
What he'’s done
the last four years
winning four in a row.
two second places after that.
no one'’s stood on the podium
more than he has.
♪
Since he won
the first event in 2016.
he'’s really been untouchable.
♪
Noah Ohlsen...
I was able to secure
the second place spot.
Performed incredibly well
in 2019.
Wore the leader jersey.
I mean. we hadn'’t seen
someone wear the leader jersey
other than Mat
for three or four years.
Then you have Justin Medeiros.
Justin Medeiros...
[cheering]
Took third place overall
and was awarded
Rookie of the Year.
The problem is. is that
that guy has typecasted himself.
He'’s gonna have to have
that mullet
for the rest of his career.
Beyond surprised. It was wild.
You know. you can only get
surprised so many times
before you'’re like. okay.
you expect him to excel.
♪
Samuel Kwant. the guy had
a fantastic rookie year.
♪
New dad on the scene.
You gotta cheer for that.
The only parent.
I was surprised to see
his performance in stage one.
I'’m excited to see
what he does in stage two.
♪
Jeffrey Adler made it?
Strong kid. new kid.
♪
With his strength
and skill sets
and how he performs
in open qualifiers
and online qualifiers.
the dude is legit.
He just needs more live
competition experience.
♪
Yeah!
Three hundred sixty-four days
till next year'’s
hockey tryouts.
And then the top five women
were Tia-Clair Toomey.
♪
The greatest female
CrossFit athlete of all time
and it'’s not even close.
Every workout.
she could potentially win.
I don'’t see anyone
touching Tia this year.
♪
Brooke Wells.
Felt a little shorted
about her performance in 2019
because she stepped on a line
which kept her from moving
into the top ten.
And because of that.
I think she'’s been holding
a really big grudge.
♪
I think this is the year
where she'’s put it
all together.
and I'’m looking forward
to what she brings
to the table this year.
[cheering]
Haley Adams might be
the toughest individual
I'’ve ever seen...
-You TikTok much?
-Mm-hm.
...as a 19-year-old.
She showed how tough she is
in 2019
when in the ruck event
was bleeding out of her back
and she climbed up
to being top ten
at the CrossFit Games
that year.
What'’s up. Haley?
She had a big ol'’ swollen foot
when I saw her.
Didn'’t say anything to anybody.
If I'’m 19 and I'm not fit
and I roll my ankle.
you'’re gonna hear about it.
♪
Katrin Davidsdottir.
the old sled dog.
Talk about a workhorse.
work capacity.
Good mindset. great skill set.
It'’s me against you.
Who wants it more?
I thought she was on
the tail end of her career
at the highest level.
The only female
to ever beat Tia-Clair Toomey
at the CrossFit Games.
Davidsdottir!
♪
Kari Pearce didn'’t surprise me
because she did really well
last year.
Some of the best biceps
and abs I'’ve ever seen
on any individual competitor.
I would argue
is one of the best
female American
CrossFitters ever.
Part Two.
the in-person competition
of the 2020 Reebok
CrossFit Games
starts on October 19th
and goes through October 25th.
and we will see you in Aromas.
♪
They'’re gonna lift
one at a time
every 45 seconds.
trickling from fifth to first.
so you'’re gonna get a good idea
of who has hit what.
You know. we already know
Mat Fraser has so much strength.
Out of this field.
he'’s one that has
the highest total
from the last time
that we actually did this
at the game.
I know I can beat his total
from 2018.
What'’s your max best Caleb?
We'’ll see. We'll see.
-You have a son.
-Yeah. yeah.
Six months old.
Almost six months old. yeah.
Been great. so I got
to represent the dads
-right here in this one.
-Does that make you
the fittest dad on Earth?
I guess so. Hey. I'’ll take it.
Heck yeah!
-The mantel is yours.
-Yeah. there we go. yeah.
Mat. we'’ve got about 12 minutes.
We can start introducing
the longer rest periods
to stimulate that.
♪
Going into Event Three.
I was super determined
to flip this whole thing around
and make sure
that I'’m not gonna let
the first two events define
this whole weekend.
Brooke Wells
leading things off.
She'’s currently in fifth place
overall.
Two hundred ninety pounds
on the bar
to get things started.
Tia was in first
and she got to go after me.
And Tia Toomey wasting no time
setting the bar
for the rest of the field.
twenty-five pounds ahead
of Brooke Wells.
Going back and forth
with Brooke on the total
was a lot of fun.
just trying to figure out
what she was going to do
and what her next move was.
♪
Good starting weight
for Adler.
For me. weights are easy.
I don'’t have to think.
I just do it.
I remember in 2018
when we had this.
Tia and I were only
five pounds off
from each other.
I actually know more
of Brooke'’s numbers
from the total than mine.
315 on the bar
for Brooke Wells.
This will be a third
and final attempt.
[grunting]
Pearce and a successful 262.
Go out and hit solid numbers
that we can for the first lift
just to have something
in the bank.
That'’s the one workout
during the weekend
where we were just like
Tia and Brooke.
Katrin and Haley.
We'’re gonna be
right in the middle.
Davidsdottir.
she had a back injury
that held her out
darn near the entire season.
I didn'’t know where I was.
I didn'’t know what numbers
I was able to hit. what not
'’cause we hadn't done them.
335 with ease
for Tia Toomey.
So Team Toomey will have
a 20-pound lead
going into the strict press.
I knew she would get me
on the back squat.
The plan was to try
to make up for it
on the deadlift.
Adler is up. and he'’s chosen
to do a 470
for his final attempt.
Look at how easy that was.
He could'’ve done more.
Although. he seems
a little surprised.
Kwant'’s got 460 on the bar.
Now 445. again.
it looks so easy.
I'’m surprised
it'’s just a 15-pound jump.
My previous bar was 445
and I end up hitting 460.
I should'’ve went
a little heavier
on that back squat.
That was my only regret
for that one.
480 is still the weight
to beat.
Fraser hit 475
on his second lift
and. now. 482?
I knew I'’d have
the strongest back squat
and so I wanted to squeeze
every pound out of that
that I could.
Fraser with that will have
the heaviest weight so far.
Mat wanted to win that event
as much as any event
but maybe more.
♪
Now to the strict
shoulder press overhead.
The mullet is next
as Medeiros has 175 on the bar.
It was pretty funny leading up
into this year'’s games.
I was like.
"If there'’s one event
that I could get dead last in.
it'’d be a max strict press."
I have to say. I honestly was
expecting more on this lift.
I didn'’t know
that the mics would catch
our voices that much.
We weren'’t trying
to do mind games.
We'’re francophones and we speak
in French to each other.
♪
[shouting]
That should be a new...
[inaudible]
This I'’m proud of.
210 for Mat Fraser.
And that is good
for Mat Fraser.
So he goes two for two
with the heaviest weights
we'’ve seen
[indistinct].
♪
We'’re gonna combine
the back squat weight
with the strict press weight
as we move into the third
and final lift.
that'’s the deadlift.
Tia Toomey matching Wells'’s 405
has put herself back
23 pounds ahead
of Brooke Wells.
I went to my coach. Dan.
and I'’m like. "Okay.
what should I do."
and he'’s like.
"You need to do 437."
And I was like.
"I'’m not doing 437.
I'’ll do 430."
He'’s like. "No.
you need to do 434."
and so I was like.
"I'’ll do 432."
This is a big lift
for Brooke Wells.
♪
Oh. she'’s still moving.
-Inching it up.
-Wow!
She went from a 405 to a 432
and that. to me.
was just so impressive.
but I had the advantage.
I got to see what she did
and I just needed to make sure
that I matched that.
I'’ll just get it.
saves me having to load.
Now. Tia-Clair Toomey.
She'’s behind by four pounds.
Her third event win in a row.
♪
At 415. it will do it.
Even after the press. I was
like 30 pounds behind Mat.
Here'’s the crazy part of it.
he won the back squat.
he won the strict press.
but the way Adler is lifting.
he might not win the event
just because of the deadlift.
You know. I was keeping
the math
to put on this sheet of paper
how much of a lead he had
on each athlete.
As the deadlifts started
to play out.
it got really stressful.
I tried to count the numbers.
If he had 26 on me
and I did this much.
so I was trying to get Carol
to count his weights.
tell me what I have to lift
so I can beat him.
like I need to know.
Successful 550 lift for Adler.
This is the one he'’s hoping
that can push him
over the top
for an event win.
-Push. push. push!
-Wow.
Holy cow.
Look at that.
567 pounds for Jeffrey Adler.
It'’s incredible that you can
make that big of a jump
on a [indistinct]
that you already had.
At that point. Jeff Adler
had deadlifted 50 pounds more
than he had on his second.
So Jeff'’s done three lifts.
He'’s plus 50 on the deadlift
to Mat.
But Mat had a 25-pound lead
going into the deadlift
on Jeff.
And he just said.
"What do I need at this point
to tie or win." and I said.
"You need 25 pounds to tie
and 26 pounds to win."
Went to load 545.
but I accidentally loaded 535.
That'’s 34 more pounds.
And I know Keith was yelling
at me. "No. no. no!"
And I was like.
"No. no. no. it'’s fine.
I got this."
Lift.
535 on the bar for Fraser.
Wow.
Yeah!
You see afterwards is that
Caroline. Adler'’s coach.
is like showing Mat
the math of it.
So that would be 1237.
and then he did 470. 207. 567.
so that'’s 1244.
Where am I?
Oh. I was...
Ah. I was off by ten pounds.
-Shit. Congrats. man.
-Thank you.
Knowing Mat.
the little that I do.
I would only assume that
that really pissed him off.
In that moment. I'’m like.
"495 plus 30."
What'’s that?
-I'’m the same.
-No. I mean. I was...
Like. the fact
that I got second.
dude. I was worried that event
I was gonna be like fourth
or fifth
and so I PRed all three lifts.
-Yeah. me too.
-Oh. yeah?
-Yeah.
-Fuck yeah. man.
Very bad. so this one is yours.
Dude. the worst you can do.
fifth place.
All top ten finishes. dude.
Handstand walk. hundred yards.
Should be a fun one.
-[inaudible]?
-Find out.
♪
Handstand walking
is--I consider it
a strength for me.
it'’s something I really enjoy.
I feel like I can make a move
on a lot of guys.
but I definitely have
an interesting tactic.
So. interesting enough.
that handstand sprint for me
was really Justin Medeiros'’
true kind of coming out party
as one of the elite
in the sport.
♪
Mat Fraser went basically 90
of the hundred yards unbroken.
But Justin comes out
and gives Mat
a run for his money
doing the complete opposite.
Going short five to ten
yard segments at a time.
kicking down.
immediately kicking back up.
I'’m surprised he kicked out.
I thought he was
very comfortable on his hands
and would do bigger sets.
As I was walking. I could see
Brooke ahead of me.
I'’m like. "She's just--
like she'’s sprinting
on her hands."
I could'’ve gone the whole
football field unbroken.
but my strategy
was to kick down
and make sure that I could be
sprinting the whole time.
Brooke will take a break.
Pearce has yet to come down.
Justin has come down
every single time
and he'’s still
right in the mix.
He'’s still sitting actually
in second place right now.
Brooke Wells just ahead
of Kari Pearce.
Brooke needed that.
That was a huge win for her.
That was definitely
the most excited
I think I may have ever been
to win an event
just because of how
the other events
had gone that morning.
Mat Fraser
in his third event win.
and just behind him
is Justin Medeiros.
Will the five-yard-at-a-time
plan work in his favor?
It'’s the little nuances
of being a competitor
that really set
some people apart.
To me. that was a big signal
of. like. okay.
-this kid could be a star.
-That was good.
My shoulders and triceps
are starting to blow up.
And I can see Brooke
out of the corner of my eye
and she was just like running.
Running! That was awesome.
That was cool.
that was a fun event.
You were pretty fired up
coming off the floor. huh?
Yeah. I really needed that.
Didn'’t really have
a good morning.
so I was really determined
to get
some kind of comeback for sure.
♪
Where are we going?
What are we doing?
End of Day One.
Going back to the Ranch
for a trail run of sorts.
Do we know our distance
for our trail run?
Do we know times?
Like. what do we know about it?
I don'’t believe that we do know
either of those yet.
All it'’s listed as
is trail run.
Details to be announced.
You got the trail runners on.
Yeah. I got
the trail runners on.
I mean. I think we'’re doing
a trail run.
That'’s what I'm--
that'’s my guess.
Everyone is kind of walking
back and forth.
We'’re kind of waiting
to get briefed.
not knowing what'’s going on.
Dave. I think. walked out
with a giant whiteboard.
I think he let us stare at it
for five minutes
before he said anything.
It'’s a run. it's a trail run.
So we'’re gonna start this event
right up there
where we started
the other event.
but not inside the rig.
right outside the rig.
So that'’s the top floor.
You run down here.
you run to my shooting range.
and then at my shooting range.
I just wanted to point
this one out.
So this is the size
some of these pigs get.
This is around 300 pounds.
And this was taken
back by the shooting range.
So if you hear something
in the bushes. don'’t worry.
but it might be
a mountain lion.
And then there'’s. oh. snakes.
I think. too.
There were snakes in there.
Once I measured it out.
I saw that it was three miles.
And I was like. "Okay.
I'’m not really happy
with the three-mile run.
I want something
a little longer."
Then you'’re gonna come down
from the shooting range
down this hill.
get to the bottom.
come across the finish line.
And then it kind of
just hit me.
One day I was like. "I should
just have them turn around.
Why not run the whole thing
and then turn around
and run it in reverse?"
And this one notion
of every downhill
becomes an uphill
was so fucking cool to me
and intriguing.
I'’m like. "I love it.
I'’m gonna have them
run it in reverse.
and I'’m not even
gonna tell '’em."
What we knew is one lap
and that was it.
No idea how far or anything.
It'’s gonna be a fun workout.
It'’s gonna be nice out there.
I guess.
I just want to be ahead
of the women.
♪
Event Five.
The Ranch loop is underway.
Approximately a three-mile loop
through the hills
and over the terrain
at the Ranch
in Aromas. California.
They don'’t know exactly
how far they'’re going.
They don'’t know the turns.
the elevation changes.
For me. it was about
getting out nice and fast.
having a really solid start.
I wanted to give those guys
a bit of a run
for their monies.
We took off. my strategy was
just sprint the downhills
and stay consistent
on the uphills.
And it started out
with the downhill.
so I took off from the get-go
and kind of owned my strategy
and kind of went for it.
♪
Everyone is battling up
this hill and going down.
and they'’re slipping. sliding.
There'’s dust everywhere.
We'’re really
in the thick of it.
♪
There you go.
I'’ve ran some hills before.
but a lot of those hills
aren'’t even runnable.
You got to--it turns
into a power hike.
Super dusty and years and years
of leaves piled up.
super slippery
and. yeah. it was crazy.
Mat Fraser is way out in front.
The loop was this big.
we started here.
went all the way here.
I'’m like. "I only have
this much left.
so now it'’s time
to kick it in."
I remember coming out
of the woods. turning.
and then just seeing
the size of this hill...
...and realizing like. "Oh.
That picture was not to scale.
Oh. shit."
I went out way too hot.
I'’m already hurting.
I was ready for a finish line
at that point.
I started gaining ground on him
and he wasn'’t looking
behind him.
and I was like. "Dude.
I don'’t think he knows
that I'’m coming."
Like. I could catch him
right now.
I kept getting closer
and closer and closer.
and finally. I got
neck and neck with him
and he'’s like--I thought he was
gonna be like. "Oh. shoot."
Now Justin Medeiros
has overtaken Mat Fraser.
So Medeiros out front
but not by much.
It was really cool to see.
like. a legend like Mat
and somebody.
a rookie like Justin.
be at the games
for the first time
and Mat was very composed
and Justin was rubber legs.
doing everything he could
to keep up.
Tia Toomey is your leader
for the women.
When we last checked in
with her.
things looked like
they had tightened up a bit.
but. now. Toomey back out
in front.
ahead of Haley Adams.
There is a twist awaiting
the athletes in this event.
You at home
will find out about it
the same time
that they athletes do.
I think I caught on
to where we were
maybe a little bit
before Justin.
and then I just sprinted.
We took off down that hill
and he'’s able to edge me out
at the very end.
but it was definitely a twist.
So Fraser making the turn.
Medeiros making the turn.
and now a sprint to the finish.
[applause]
Around. this way.
[laughing]
come in. turn around. run in
reverse
the entire course backwards.
Listen. I'’m serious.
I'’m not joking.
Start moving. run the whole
course in reverse.
I'’m dead serious. run
the entire course backwards.
And there you have it.
They'’re not done.
They just reached
the halfway point.
♪
We sold out across
that finish line.
I mean. Mat kind of took a knee.
fell on the ground.
I was getting ready
to frigging flop down.
And Dave'’s like. "Another lap."
and I look at him.
like. "What? Are you serious?"
I'’m looking at Mat.
Mat'’s super confused.
And Dave just kind of like
grabs me and pushes me.
and I'’m like. "Oh.
this is happening.
This is real."
♪
Then I'’m sitting there
like. "Oh. shit."
You can only imagine
like selling out
for a finish line like that
and being told
that you'’re only halfway.
And I just figured
it was the joke
that every CrossFit coach
says in their career.
Your athletes finish
a three-round workout
and you'’re like. "Oh.
one more round. let'’s go."
And all the athletes are like.
"Oh. are you serious?"
"No. I'’m kidding.
go get a drink of water."
Tia Toomey and Haley Adams.
they'’re gonna figure out
something is going on.
I know Mat so well.
like the back of my hand well.
that he would not be
warming down
and going back up this hill.
so there'’s something
happening here.
We'’re selling it. you know.
'’cause we thought
we were almost there.
Had a moment of panic.
full panic.
They come like.
"What'’s happening?"
And we were so tired.
we weren'’t saying nothing.
No part of my mind
right at first when I saw them
was like. "You'’re gonna do
the whole thing again."
Toomey not even slowing down.
making the turn
to head right back up.
As soon as I get
to the finish line.
Dave goes. "You see
what'’s happening here."
and I was like. "What'’s that?"
And he'’s like. "You're gonna
go and do this reverse now."
Uh-oh. I'’ve just gone out
way too hot.
You can'’t rely on
your fitness anymore.
Now you'’ve got to have
your shit together
in a way you never
thought possible.
I thought it was
the best twist.
the coolest event.
I don'’t think they should
ever do it again.
Hey. guys. we'’re running
the entire course now
in reverse.
Go around. the same thing
you just did but backwards.
Right when we turned around.
she was on my right.
I was on the left and. yeah.
then she just gave me
a little "pfft"
and I was like...
I don'’t know if she was shocked
or what she was thinking.
and I kind of
just literally.
I apologized to her.
I was like. "Kari.
I'’m so sorry."
but I shoulder bumped her
on the way back.
I guess I was just
in your way. "psh."
The first thing I thought.
I was like. "Yes!"
And I was like.
"That'’s my shot.
I can go get '’em."
♪
Mat Fraser is still the leader
for the men
as he makes his way back
through this approximately
three-mile loop.
It'’s a much tougher course
in reverse
because the back half
has such steep inclines
and declines.
The whole first half
of the second lap.
my quads were cramped.
It doesn'’t matter how bad
you want to keep going.
If your muscles just lock up.
you'’re just in
the fetal position
in the middle of the woods
hoping that somebody finds ya.
and there'’s nothing you can do.
♪
Katrin Davidsdottir
has passed Tia Toomey.
Haley Adams is in the lead
and Davidsdottir is starting
to real hurry.
[panting]
When Kat passed me.
I was like. "She knew."
Katrin already started
catching me and I was like.
"Oh my gosh.
she must be feeling great
'’cause I feel like I'm dying."
♪
It was me and Haley
for so long.
We didn'’t see Katrin
in the beginning of this race.
I mean. she was
way in the back.
but pushing the pace right now
against Haley
who'’s a good runner.
We'’re like two-thirds
of the way through the lap
on the way back.
and Justin was like.
"Hey. man. if we get
to the finish line side by side.
I'’m gonna run for it."
I was like. "Ugh. dammit. dude.
Why?"
I'’m telling you this much.
I ain'’t gonna be walking
across that finish line.
If you'’re next to me.
I'’m going.
And here'’s a twist.
♪
Mat Fraser is really fit.
[laughing]
♪
I just put the pedal down
and grabbed the hundred points.
Just like in 2016.
Mat Fraser is gonna win
the Ranch loop.
Medeiros. second place for him.
♪
Katrin Davidsdottir
makes another comeback
and she does it in Event Five.
♪
I was high on adrenaline after.
and I was like.
"That was my favorite workout
ever at the games."
♪
Haley had rolled her ankle
like a month before.
does this long.
gnarly heel workout.
finishes in second
despite this terrible ankle.
which she would never
complain about.
but if you look at the photos.
they'’re--it's gnarly.
And I'’m kicking myself
because I think.
"I could'’ve crushed
that workout."
That was such
a great workout for me.
but I just didn'’t
pace it right.
Now turn around.
Woo. that was--that was mean.
but...
I think that'’s gonna go down
as one of the best
little twists and reveals
-in games history.
-If I was the athletes.
I wouldn'’t trust anything
Dave told me.
not that I would normally
as an athlete.
but I wouldn'’t trust anything
he told me
for the rest of the weekend.
"Oh. it'’s five rounds?
Really? Bullshit."
So. I think
it'’s a one time off.
It was the perfect opportunity
to do it.
I absolutely love the Ranch.
Yeah. that was for sure
the most brutal first day
I'’ve ever had
at the Cross-Fit Games.
What was Mat'’s reaction?
He didn'’t believe me.
he stopped.
and he actually knelt down.
Then he flipped me off.
Is that the first time
anyone has done that
while you trust in the workout?
In this event. yes.
People have flipped me off
a lot before.
but maybe not at the games.
6.12 miles.
So. that was good.
It was definitely...
To see his face.
right when we finished.
he told us to go again.
I came across and he'’s like.
"All right. go back. ha-ha."
And I...
Make sure that
that was something
that he would do.
I crossed. he said it.
and I was like.
"Yeah. fuck off."
Like. ha-ha.
And then when we came in again.
I heard him say something to me
about blah. blah. blah. finish.
And I was like. "No.
No. I'’m not doing a third lap."
And he was like.
"This is the real finish."
-Oh. thank God.
-Thank you.
I mean. I was in fifth place.
There are only five girls.
so you kind of have to play
that game in certain events.
Like. why would I kill myself
and make myself more tired
and expend more energy
with getting a better time
for fifth place?
It'’s not gonna do anything.
so...
Really good. yeah.
That turnaround
was a goddamn blessing.
I missed some opportunities
on the first lap
where I should'’ve attacked.
or I attacked and didn'’t like
out of sight.
out of mind attack
or wasn'’t reckless enough
on the downhill.
I kept learning
on the first lap
and I just needed more time.
so when he was like.
"Turn around."
I was like. "Yes."
Goddamn. when he'’s like.
"Turn around. go."
I was just like. "Pfft."
[laughing]
-You'’re shirtless over here?
-Yeah. Another shirt soaked.
-Did you skip the ice bath?
-I went in.
You went in the ice bath
and you'’re shirtless right now?
Yeah. I live in Washington.
I got a heating pad
and a sweatshirt on.
It'’s like the most...
Dads don'’t get cold. dude. nah.
We won'’t be able to come
for the last event?
No. it'’s at the Ranch.
Maybe they'’ll make
an exception to that.
-That'’s very stupid.
-We should all boycott.
We did that once before. Noah.
I don'’t remember.
You did that once.
[laughing]
That thing.
I do remember. vaguely.
♪
As a community.
I think we all needed something
that we could rally around.
especially with how hard
everything had been
when COVID hit.
Well. we'’re in Coronaland
it'’s like COVID World.
so the vibe this year
has been strange. weird.
COVID hit. threw everybody
for a loop.
If we'’re in the sport
of the unknown
and the unknowable
and overcoming obstacles.
cool. we got another one
this year
that probably will not
be seen again.
from not knowing if the games
were gonna happen
to not having
any training buddies.
to being in your garage
for three months.
COVID was absolutely
devastating.
So as the news rolls in
that more and more countries
are going into lockdown.
what that means is thousands
of small business owners.
they can'’t train their clients
in person.
And so the uncertainty
and the just desperation
from the community
was really. really intense.
So it'’s been a hard year
with COVID
as being an affiliate owner
across the Big D
in Dallas. Texas.
It used to be a labor of love
and now it'’s a labor
of survival.
Our affiliate was shut down.
and my wife gave birth
to our seven-month-old now.
So the same week. March 19th.
Eighty-nine percent of all gyms
across the globe closed.
and 96% of all gyms
in the United States closed.
We were shut down
for seven months.
During that period. there was
a ton of pressure on CrossFit
to throw in the towel
just '’cause everybody else
was doing it.
but that'’s just not the spirit
of CrossFit.
You saw the Olympics
get postponed.
you saw the NBA season
you saw the MLB season
get postponed.
and suddenly. it started
to kind of weigh in
that despite what I see
as a very steadfast
CrossFit community.
that this thing is quickly
ballooning out of our hands
and there may not be
a season anymore.
Saving the games was not
the priority. right?
It'’s like saving CrossFit.
In May of 2020. not only was
the CrossFit community
dealing with the COVID thing
and whether or not
they could--they could survive
as business affiliates
around the world
were shutting their doors.
here in the United States.
there was major social upheaval
after the murder
of George Floyd.
Black Lives Matter!
Riots start happening.
Big conversations
start occurring
inside the CrossFit community
and CrossFitters are coming out
and saying.
"Hey. we want to hear
from the global entity here."
And there was
this intense pressure
through social media especially
to say something.
And the problem was
is CrossFit
is not a reactive organization.
Almost everything we publish
is evergreen
and it'’s about fitness
and nutrition
and things that are unchanging.
And we were just unprepared.
I think.
to have any type of statement
as a fitness company
about what was going on.
But the fact that there was
just radio silence
really upset a lot of people
because. again.
it doesn'’t take a lot
just to say.
"We know there'’s a problem.
We understand
we have work to do.
We support changing this.
and we'’re gonna try
to find a way to do that."
That'’s all I think
they needed to do.
but there was none of that.
[tapping of computer keys]
♪
[whistling]
It was like a bomb went off
in the community.
And that is when
the media storm took over.
I knew there was gonna be
anger from it.
I knew people
were gonna be upset.
I didn'’t think it would erupt
kind of like it did.
The fucking world is on fire.
man. it'’s insane.
It'’s a hard time
for affiliates
and for the CrossFit community.
I'’m out. My participation
in the 2020 CrossFit Games
will be contingent
upon major changes being made.
We both felt pretty strongly
that we might be able
to make the game
something better
and maybe make
the CrossFit organization
that we both love
something a little bit better
if we acted sooner.
so we both made a decision
to say that we were out
and boycott the games.
That moment kind of felt.
to me. like.
"Hey. I can step up
and not just talk here.
but actually do something
and hopefully create
some change."
None of the athletes
are going a'’roaming.
I will have a confirmation
of that in a very short time.
I have a call with
every games athlete tomorrow.
They all want to boycott.
You want things to be right
and better
'’cause I want the games
to happen.
I want Mat to win the games
and do all he wants to do.
and I just want it all
to go back to normal.
but it'’s broken right now.
I think all the athletes
were mad.
They felt stabbed in the back
in a lot of ways.
They were kind of
the poster childs to this sport
that they waved the flag
and been so proud of it.
to then have it
almost come back and bite them
in a way that they definitely
didn'’t feel represented them
or their sport
or the community.
so I feel like
they just felt bitter
and almost like betrayed.
There'’s this narrative.
this false narrative
that all the athletes boycotted
and that'’s simply not true.
-A lot did.
-I'’m very proud of my decision.
but it'’s also like a knife
to my heart
when I think about
the possibility
of not being able to compete.
I just want to compete
and I want to be proud
of all my hard work.
and I just--I can'’t be proud
representing a company
like CrossFit right now.
I was totally 100% ready
to go down the leader board
and I would'’ve had no issue
doing that.
If you want to truly boycott
and make a difference.
tell them
that you'’re showing up.
Show up to the competition.
And then when they go.
"Three. two. one. go."
sit on the floor.
Don'’t tell your enemy
your strategy.
No. like. if you want
to truly boycott.
hurt them where it counts.
on the competition floor.
I don'’t think anybody thought
Greg was ever gonna sell
the company.
And then all of a sudden.
there'’s conversations
that you hear
through the rumor mill
and Greg'’s talking
to some entrepreneur
out in Colorado.
Ladies and gentlemen.
Eric Roza.
It is a pleasure
to be with everyone today.
When you read sort of
the top line about Eric Roza.
the farther you got into it.
the more you thought.
"This is best-case scenario."
He was a successful businessman
and owner of an affiliate
himself.
and he just seems
like a good guy.
We talked about his Fran time.
which was actually
really impressive.
Your Fran time
is really impressive.
Go ahead. tell the world
what your Fran time is
because it'’s faster than mine.
that'’s for sure.
You keep dwelling
on a good number
or you can pick some bad ones
to talk about too.
but yeah. after I turned 50.
I did a 2:40 Fran.
which I was kind of
psyched about.
The expectations
are so unrealistic
of what people want
from CrossFit.
But guess what.
what CrossFit does for us
is so unrealistic. so we'’ve
set our own expectations
by being this incredible
alchemical force
in people'’s lives
for so many different types
of people
that we'’ve set this bar
that we do have this magic
and we are unrealistic.
So then the question was.
"How do we live up to that?"
So my job wasn'’t
to burst the bubble.
It was actually
to really try to think
really expansively
about what we can be
in the future
and then not get
completely overwhelmed.
We have someone now
who we can get behind.
who'’s gonna listen to us.
who'’s gonna try to do things
the right way.
might make mistakes.
but is gonna own up to '’em
and always strive to be better.
♪
Gotta get the hair primed
and ready for day two.
You know.
it'’s nothing luxurious
but gets the job done.
As you can see.
this isn'’t prime day two.
The first thing
is I'’ve gotta take a shower.
gotta get the whole thing
nice and wet.
Nice cold water to wake you up
in the morning.
-We'’re getting there.
-You are getting there.
-Yeah. hm. yeah.
I like what you'’re doing.
I like it.
Get all those knots out.
Does it matter the bristle?
Dude. I actually do
a nice little Wet Brush.
Good old American Crew.
Keeps the curls nice and tight.
still lets the hair bounce
a little bit.
Oh yeah. here it comes.
coming alive.
Dude. here it comes!
All right. final touch.
Little hair flip.
Dude. how'’s it looking
this morning. boys?
-Oh. looking good!
-Looking good.
-Ready for Day 2.
-Primed and ready.
Yeah. let'’s go!
Going into Day 2. we'’ve already
got five events down
and we got
a lot more events to go.
I mean. whatever happened
on Day 1 could easily switch
and we start the morning
with lunge toe-to-bar workouts.
Be a nice quick
little sprint workout.
so I'’m excited to get that going
and then lift some weights
after that.
♪
Day 2 of the CrossFit Games.
Right?
How are we feeling?
Pretty good.
Little stomach issues. but...
When I woke up Saturday morning.
I felt like something
had definitely gone on
the night before.
My stomach was
very. very riled up.
couldn'’t really
get much food down.
[indistinct remarks]
Better? Good.
I was worried about you
all night.
Glad you'’re feeling better.
I actually was too.
I had sympathy
stomach issues overnight.
I was so excited for that
toes-to-bar/lunge workout
and I just could not
get it together.
I was definitely--I feel like
I was on a rollercoaster
of emotions that day
just because I had
two horrible events. two good
ones. and another horrible.
So it wasn'’t fun to like.
end on a bad note.
So I was like. very determined
to not let Friday affect me.
It'’s game day. finally.
you know what I mean?
Like. that was the kick
in the teeth
to get everyone started.
I think.
Now it'’s just like.
who wants to fight?
-Done all the workouts?
-Yeah.
-Have you done all the workouts?
-Mm-mm.
-Yes. sir.
Is there any other surprises
coming up?
Oh yeah. lots.
Is the biggest surprise
dropped on '’em yet?
No.
♪
One day of competition down.
two to go
as we start Day 2.
Individual event number six.
the toes-to-bar/lunge.
It'’s a short.
unbroken sprint event.
♪
All combined. everything I hate
is all there.
Watching really fit people
and trying to be a really fit
person is not the same thing.
because that event sucked.
That event was so hard.
When that workout got announced.
I was like.
"Good.
I'’ve been working on this."
♪
It was the first pure CrossFit
short. sweet. fast
skill workout.
It'’s really important to me
with a lot of these events
to never stray too far
from who we are and what we are.
♪
Noah had to swing hard at that
toe-to-bar/lunge workout.
For him to get any chance
of being in the mix
for the rest of the weekend.
like. he had to win that event.
and he came out flying.
♪
It is unbroken and that is the
only choice. but not just that.
You have to be fast
the whole time.
My plan going out in that one
was just go out
as fast as I can.
make the cycle
as short as I can.
I think I hit 15 and Noah'’s ref
is like. "18. 19."
I was like. "What?
How are you
that far ahead of me?"
♪
Noah Ohlsen first off the rig.
followed closely
by rookie Justin Medeiros
with Mat Fraser.
Oh my God. like. I had
all this hope and expectation
coming into this of like.
"I'’m gonna smash this workout."
and then Noah is just
that far ahead of me.
And it was really fun
to see Noah and Katrin
try to take it to Mat and Tia.
♪
I just love a good competition.
I love a battle like that.
Davidsdottir first to the rig.
Noah Ohlsen. first to the rig
for the set of 20 toes above.
♪
Hand in the air for Davidsdottir
in lane number two
and she'’ll be first off the rig.
No break for Noah Ohlsen
as he'’ll come off the rig first.
followed closely behind
by your champ.
They'’re going faster than me.
I can'’t control them.
What can I control
to make myself go faster?
And I was slowly
just catching up to her.
I was able to have faster
transitions within those sets.
On the second lunge.
I was like probably two
or three meters behind him.
He stepped up and instead of
stepping through.
he planted his foot
and like took a breath
and that'’s when I went.
"I got him."
Oh. there'’s a stumble.
Here comes Mat Fraser.
♪
I have 10 toe-to-bar
and 10 yards of lunging.
The workout'’s done already.
Davidsdottir is done as she'’ll
advance her kettle bells.
but Tia-Clair Toomey
close on her heels.
But Tia drops the kettle bells
in the middle.
I think as long as they get
to the end. it'’s gonna be okay.
So that'’s a strategic ploy
from Tia-Clair Toomey.
It came down to like
the set of tens
where I was able
to jump up on the bar.
get a few toe-to-bar
in front of her.
♪
We have a lunge race
to the finish.
Ten yards between
your former champs.
♪
You can feel the adrenaline.
the atmosphere.
and in moments like that where--
that'’s why you've trained
so hard
so that you can experience that.
♪
Tia Toomey will win
her fourth event.
I remember just
like high-fiving Tia
and I was like.
"That was awesome."
Mat is first to the rig
for the final 10 toes to bar.
♪
We put the kettle bells down
at almost the exact same time.
Fraser'’s off the rig.
Ohlsen just behind him.
Mat Fraser. hard charging
to the finish line.
♪
Incredible.
That was finally my chance.
I was in the lead.
I just needed to finish
and capitalize.
and I really didn'’t make
any mistakes.
Once again. I just
got out-fitnessed.
which is a little bit harder
to swallow
than making a mistake
and getting outsmarted.
When you try that and Mat just
stops you dead in your tracks.
I think that crushed Noah
for the rest of the weekend.
That first set. were you doing
two at a time?
[panting]
Why does that guy
win everything?
-What'’d you say?
-Dang it.
Why does that guy
win everything?
Grr.
-Why are you so good. man?
-Bro.
I was at 15 and your judge
was like. "19!"
I was like. "How?"
I can teach you my ways
once I retire.
Well. my ways just
fucking won the workout. so.
I'’ll still teach you so you
can win by more next time.
[laughing]
Kettle bells right next to them.
I don'’t know why
they were doing--
and that'’s my point
when I told you guys.
I'’m like. "You can put the
kettle bells anywhere you want."
Hey. I'’m not arguing
about what they did.
You'’re the only one
who did it right.
[indistinct remarks]
Way to stay focused
and engaged. hey?
That was awesome.
Shane. were you yelling.
"Mongrel"?
-What were you yelling?
-Mongrel. yeah.
-We know what mongrel is. right?
-Mm-mm.
All right. it just means
be aggressive.
be that mongrel dog
who just doesn'’t let up
and just keeps fighting
and fighting and fighting.
and I guess I'’ve said that
a few times. I guess.
When you hear Shane
yelling "Mongrel."
what does that--
what do you hear?
I. um. get angry.
like. how bad do you want it?
I can get dirty.
It'’s really interesting.
this year at the games
we had workout after workout
after workout
over only three days
whereas we'’re used to
like five days
and then there'’s
a lot more heat.
so there'’s a lot more time
between the events.
This year it was.
"All right. come eight o'’clock.
it'’s go. go. go. go. go
until the very last workout."
♪
Five will enter. one will leave.
as the CrossFit Games version
of Thunderdome is underway
with Event 7.
And I love the way
this is set up.
It'’s three rounds
and we eliminate
one athlete every single time.
So we go from five
to four to three.
♪
We'’re underway. Event 8.
the Bike Repeater.
Down and back on the bike
in the grass
with that legless rope climb.
♪
Very confident going into
that workout that.
hey. like. if I stayed
in my own lane.
I focused on
what I needed to do.
I could get the result
that I wanted.
Jeffrey Adler.
who called the shot early.
staying pace with the champ.
♪
The first three bars
were light enough
that I could just put it
overhead anyhow
and get out of it fine.
My biggest concern was getting
through that first round.
All those guys are very capable
of cycling that weight
pretty quickly.
You can'’t have any hesitations.
'’cause if you hesitate.
like. you'’re done.
♪
You just have to go
as hard as you can.
get off the bike.
ascend the rope.
get back on the bike.
and go as hard as you can.
♪
It'’s all about the bike.
You really can make up or break
your race on this bike.
That was not a rope climb event.
It was a bike event and it was
a lot on the turnarounds.
When I dropped my bike.
it was a full sprint
and just no hesitation.
right up that rope.
Just boom. boom. boom.
touch. fall down.
and then just sprint back
to your bike.
♪
Fraser is done again.
as he moves in the third
and final bar at 265.
That first round went well
and then second round.
I knew I would squat
from the first bar.
So 245. 55. 65.
All three athletes lined up for
the bar at the same exact time.
Kwant will hit. Adler will hit.
and Noah Ohlsen will not advance
to the final round.
For me. it was about
just settling into a pace
where I wasn'’t allowing them
to gain on me.
but I also wasn'’t pushing it
too hard
where I was absolutely
annihilating myself
to finish the workout.
♪
Look at that turnaround.
we talked about the devil
in the details.
That was a beautiful turnaround.
First round you see
who'’s right with you
and it was just Medeiros.
so I was like. "All right.
that'’s who I'm keeping my eye on
for the whole workout."
By round five. six. seven.
I was like right behind Justin
in third place and well. okay.
I'’ll just keep that pace
and see what happens.
♪
Third and final round underway
to determine who will win
Event 7.
265. just like boom.
It felt crisp.
hit right in the slot.
Boom. good. drop it.
and I was like. "I don'’t need
to wait for the 275."
That'’s as good as I've ever
seen him work snatching.
The bar was flying up.
he was just so clean.
I'’m sure the fact that Adler
was like calling me out.
he'’s like.
"I'’m winning this one."
I was like...
"A'’ight."
Got to 285 and Mat
was there before me.
but he missed.
♪
Dropped it in front.
that opens the door
for Jeffrey Adler.
Then Round 7 and 8.
Adler just hit another gear
and passed me and gave Fraser
a run for his money.
♪
And Jeffrey Adler is starting
to push Mat Fraser.
I have two rounds
and he'’s like--
I can catch him.
♪
And it was in the eighth
and I saw Adler.
I was like.
"Huh. that'’s interesting."
I haven'’t seen him
the whole time.
I was like. "Oh. I must be
a full round ahead of him."
Jeff should be getting fired up
right now.
Look at that. all right.
Mat made the look.
Mat finally looked over at him
and now the race is on here.
♪
We'’re coming in
for the ninth rope climb
and then I see both of our signs
have nine on them.
I went. "Oh my God.
we'’re on the same round."
♪
Oooh. dropped it in front.
That opens the door
for Jeffrey Adler.
I see Adler walking up.
I don'’t wanna give him
a chance to win.
The one thing he wanted to do
was to beat Mat Fraser
in this event.
Make it or break it.
like. it'’s now.
Fraser is to the rope
at the same time as Jeff Adler.
Adler makes the touch and now
it'’s Adler who is in the lead.
Rookie mistake.
passed him on Round 9.
Just like in
Fast and the Furious.
Adler made the push to pass him
but he was a little bit
too soon
and Fraser dropped the hammer.
absolutely dropped the hammer
on the final bike.
Mat gets to the bar first
and he'’ll stand up with it
and Mat Fraser
will win Event 7.
♪
He has regained the lead
from Jeff Adler.
but not by much.
He didn'’t push Mat.
he surprised Mat.
and then Mat went. "I was just
going as fast as I needed to
to win the event.
and then once I saw someone
catch up to me.
I smoked everybody again."
♪
Fraser to the rope first.
Fraser makes the touch
and Mat Fraser wins again.
his seventh event win.
Two seconds apart.
that'’s not much.
I was close.
Toomey up to the final bar.
185 pounds.
She won the quarter final.
she won the semi final.
and with this last lift.
Tia Toomey will win the final
in her second event for Day 2.
Tia Toomey'’s gonna hang on
to the overall lead
and win yet another event.
♪
You motherfucker.
[speaking foreign language]
What'’s your French code word
for Mat Fraser
that we'’re not supposed
to know about?
Oh. I'’m not telling you.
-It'’s nothing--
-It'’s nothing mean.
No. no. we'’re not mean
to anybody. we'’re Canadian.
We'’ll tell you
at the end of the weekend.
-Okay. okay.
-Okay.
So you can go back and watch
all the reels and be like.
"Oh. they'’re talking about Mat.
they'’re talking about Mat."
You said you felt like...
[audio trails off]
Yeah. on the first run.
When he says.
"Dude. I almost had you."
I wanted to say that to Mat
but I don'’t know
if he would understand
the reference.
Maybe he'’ll do a mistake
tomorrow. I don'’t know.
Hopefully I broke his back
yesterday on the dead lift.
[indistinct remarks]
-My back. my back is broken.
-Spinal.
Went okay.
went pretty good. yeah.
I'’ll take--matched my PR.
which I never like to match
a PR. but it'’s all right.
I'’ll take it. I'll take it.
You came off that second barbell
and Adler was on
his last barbell.
What'’d you say?
You kinda were.
"Time for you to go."
I was like. "You better hurry
up. I'’m coming for you. Jeff."
Yeah. I almost had him.
but it'’s good stuff.
It was a good race.
I liked it. I liked it.
-Finished it. so I'’m happy.
-How was that?
Good. I felt like myself.
felt good.
Your energy levels are night
and day from this morning.
-Yeah.
I hope you got all that
on camera this morning too.
I just felt like SpongeBob
before and after.
Five hundred years later.
Feel way better. way better.
-What are we eating?
-Well. I just had an apple.
Well. here. I'’m not eating
all of these right now.
I just pack in bulk.
I'’m eating just
grilled chicken breast.
This and then my magical...
Lucky Charms.
That'’s the secret. you know?
I just went for the large.
not quite the family.
but if it was four days
of competition.
I might'’ve had to go
for the family.
-How'’s it going so far?
-It'’s going amazing.
-So cool to be here.
-Yeah. so what'’s it mean
to pull the event off so far
and like all the planning
-and now it'’s happening?
-You know. I will tell you.
when we were working on the--
when we were working on
the acquisition.
we told the investors.
"Don'’t assume there will be
a CrossFit Games this year."
and I was telling myself that.
Like. it'’s not failure if
there'’s not a games this year
because who knows what'’s gonna
happen with the disease.
who knows what'’s
gonna happen with--
immigration was a big issue.
getting athletes in.
and then this new construct.
right. where we said.
"Well. what if we only get
10 people in person?
Do the rest at home. we can
avoid all the local restrictions
and hopefully we'’ll have
less immigration to deal with."
It turns out we got very lucky
on immigration. right.
because we only had one foreign
athlete who had to come in.
The other foreign athletes
were based here already.
♪
The CrossFit Games was ironic
because I had actually
moved away
from being really into
the CrossFit Games.
I was very serious
about my personal fitness.
but I wasn'’t as focused on the
Open and like a lot of people.
I felt like it had been
screwed up in 2019.
♪
And we need this. and I felt
like the CrossFit community
in particular had just
been just beaten down
and we had to do it.
We had to show grit.
Like. it just became this thing
that I felt we had to do.
♪
This quest at the highest level
of human performance
is not in opposition
to the person
who'’s extremely deconditioned.
who doesn'’t know
if they can handle
a scaled CrossFit workout.
It is actually in service to it
and there'’s a continuum here.
and there'’s an arc.
there'’s a storyline to be told.
♪
What are--do we know what
we'’re doing at ranch tonight?
No. I think we'’re about
to find out though.
I have no idea.
Just taping up for
the last event on Saturday.
♪
Event 9 is called Happy Star
and I'’m sure it's gonna be
pretty miserable.
It'’s four rounds for time.
They'’re gonna run
four separate loops there
at the ranch varying in distance
and then thrusters
and bar-facing burpees.
When Dave first announced
what it was
and I was like.
"More of these hill runs?"
I was like. "This is just dumb.
I don'’t wanna do this
right now."
I was like.
"Well. why not have each round
run a different route
up the hill?"
And so we set that workout up
with four different runs.
I called it Happy Stars.
Happy Stars is a kid'’s meal
at Carl'’s Jr.
We had done so much hill running
before that
that I was like. "Oh great.
we'’re doing another
hill running event."
This is like
a toughness workout.
♪
Event 9 underway.
and we start
with that first run.
♪
Went out hot in that workout.
around that first pillar.
Came back. hit my five in five.
♪
Brooke Wells is gonna
get there first
and she will get to work
on her burpees.
Five burpees over the beam here.
The fact that it started with
lower reps and lighter weight
and then kept increasing weight
and kept increasing the reps.
I was like.
"Oh. that'’s a little spicy."
♪
Samuel Kwant. this is
the first time we'’ve seen him
get out in front.
push the pace a little bit.
Try to be in the lead on
the first two runs. which I was.
and then that event
got pretty gnarly.
That first round was a trap.
You'’re like. "I'm already
a quarter of the way
through the workout."
and it'’s like.
"Nah. not yet."
♪
And it gets nasty. you can see.
They'’re hopping over
little ravines.
they'’re running through pockets
of grass and dirt.
-Fraser done first.
-Man.
Just blew the doors off
those seven burpees.
I really liked that workout.
I like workouts
that are a good mix
of cardio and then the burpees.
It'’s like. all right.
just shut off your mind
and do some grunt work.
Lay down. get up. jump.
and then throw in a barbell.
He'’s pushing the pace
of these thrusters.
Absolutely incredible.
Mat Fraser looking to sweep
all four events here on Day 2.
♪
I really like
this tenacious start
from Brooke Wells.
This is my chance
to like redeem myself
for what happened
on the second event.
I just decided to send it.
Brooke Wells is off
on run number three.
Tia Toomey is in second place.
The hill run played a lot more
of a factor than I thought.
Medeiros is looking
absolutely crushed
behind the three men
ahead of him.
I think Round 4. those guys got
a little bit of separation on me
and Round 5. I was bringing up
the back of the pack.
First half of that workout
was just putting the pedal down.
The second half was being aware
of where other people were.
You have death. taxes.
and Mat Fraser at this point.
because it'’s a sure thing
that he'’s gonna be on top
of the overall leader board
at this event.
I think I was at like
seven or eight burpees
by the time they even
got back into the rig.
♪
Man. look at Brooke Wells
just going for it.
She needs to. why not?
Brooke gave it to me
on the last run
and she was just powering
up that hill.
She'’s gonna have to
push the pace.
this is where it all comes down
to grit and fitness.
Don'’t get caught up her race.
stay in your own lane
and just finish
what you have to do.
You don'’t wanna over-exert
yourself on the hill
and then not be able
to perform those thrusters.
It was going really well.
I maintained.
I was leading the event for
about 90% of the time.
♪
And Brooke Wells fails a rep.
I just pushed myself
to the limit way too soon
and I started red-lining
on the last bar.
Brooke put it down again.
oh my goodness.
♪
I really made sure that I slowed
those burpees down
and just made sure
that they were efficient
so that I wasn'’t fatigued
too much.
♪
Toomey continuing to crank away.
Now just two reps to go before
she will cross the finish line.
And Tia Toomey...
A clean sweep on Saturday.
Another first place finish
for the three-time
defending champ.
But now Pearce is in
and she will take second.
When I dropped the bar and I
like ran across the finish line.
I like looked over
and I was like.
"Okay. we got second.
that'’s good."
Davidsdottir is across.
that is huge for her.
Wells is done and she'’s gonna
cross the finish line.
so she'’ll take fourth.
I went from like a first place
to fourth.
I gave everything that I had.
I felt like myself
in that event.
I felt like
I just like went for it
and I was actually doing
the best that I could.
Fraser is done.
and Fraser wins another event.
Now. Sam Kwant trying to lock up
second place.
Very last round.
me and Noah and Adler
got off the burpees
at the very same time.
It was just whoever
wanted it more
on those last set of thrusters.
Those got gnarly. I was hurting
pretty bad on that.
-There he goes.
-Kwant is in.
and that is huge for the man
who came in fifth place overall.
♪
I wish that I would'’ve just
tried and gone to failure.
because the worst thing
that could'’ve happened
is that I dropped the bar.
which I did anyway.
and would'’ve had to just
pick it up and finish.
And Samuel Kwant
does not seem to care
about his personal hygiene
at this point.
He'’s just looking for
a soft spot to rest right now.
So you saw Samuel Kwant
who finished second.
That'’s the guy
who finished first.
They just did the same thing.
Tia Toomey goes four for four
on Saturday.
and there are three remaining.
and you wonder if
she'’s gonna be able to keep
the winning streak alive
on the final day.
♪
-You reckon that'’ll be fine?
-It'’ll be fine.
but it'’s just got a smell to it.
Smells like...
What'’s been on your mind?
Whether or not
this is my last year.
I think I really just need
to have some time off
and evaluate like
what Shane and I wanna do
as a family. you know?
-Does that mean kids?
-Yeah. you know.
like we'’ve--man.
we'’ve been together now...
...13 years.
And so. like.
when you look at that.
it'’s--that's a long time.
and so it'’s--
I know I was ready to have kids
like five years ago.
As exciting as it is to get
into a new chapter of your life.
it'’s also pretty sad
to close the doors
of your past. past chapter.
Even talking about it
makes me think.
"Oh. but I don'’t know.
I don'’t know
if I wanna do that."
-Oui. oui.
-Hello.
-How are you guys?
-How are you?
You seemed like aggressively
targeting Mat.
Like everyone else
was just sort of--
-I know. it'’s so funny.
-Oh yeah?
You'’re like vocal about like.
"No. someone'’s gotta beat him."
Yes. '’cause otherwise
it'’s boring.
Like. and I don'’t wanna say that
in a bad way about Mat.
but even for him. like.
I would be curious to know.
to ask him like.
"Is this boring you this year?
Like. are you pushing at all?"
Like. you compete
for the challenge.
If you'’re not getting
a challenge.
then like. what'’s the point?
Like. the battle
is from second to fifth.
which is cool. '’cause we have
an awesome battle
with the other guys
and I'’m super happy.
but I wish that we were--
-Mat was a part of it.
-Yeah. kind of.
Is he--don'’t take this
the wrong way.
but it looks like
he'’s on another level.
-He is. he is.
-Oh my God.
That'’s--it's crazy.
I don'’t understand.
I just don'’t.
What'’s your lead right now?
435 points.
So with the lead you have now.
are you comfortable
with that lead?
No. because there'’s no rule
saying that they can'’t
take it away.
Like. we could show up
to the final and they'’re like.
"All right. now. stage three
of the CrossFit Games.
Only the top two go.
clean slate.
Go."
This could your final night
before competition.
[chuckling]
You could potentially have
only three more events
at the CrossFit Games.
You say that like
I'’m gonna miss it.
That'’s what I'm asking!
I know I will miss it.
Um. but...
the real memories
are made in training.
Those are the real memories.
I wish there was something
I could frame from those days.
♪
It'’s the final day
of competition
at the 2020 Reebok
CrossFit Games.
Time to do some swimming
and stuff.
My favorite event by far
was Swim '’N' Stuff.
I thought it was a brilliant
event and I thought
it was something that took
advantage of the smaller feel.
♪
Okay. we got a really cool one
for you guys
this morning
that I'’m excited about.
It'’s one of my favorites.
Four rounds. each round
on a four-minute timer.
Three. two. one. go.
15 cal assault bike.
swim the length of the pool.
10 GHDs. 10 slam balls.
sprint across the finish.
After that. rest until
the four-minute mark
and then you do it again
backwards.
One round. two rounds.
three rounds. four rounds.
Yes. so you'’ll do
each variant twice.
Outdoors. new test. unique test.
I'’m very excited for the way
it'’s gonna start off today.
We definitely were having a bit
of a laugh before the workout.
Haley is all into TikTok.
Kat and I were like.
"Well. you know what. girl.
we can do a few little
TikTok dances ourselves."
But apparently we are old and
we don'’t really know the moves.
No. I haven'’t seen anyone
post that dance in so long.
That'’s like five months ago.
[beeping]
We are underway.
Now here'’s the key.
They will not know
their cumulative time
throughout the event
and their coaches aren'’t there
to help them out with that.
There'’s so many
different elements
that this might not be
a swim workout.
♪
You gotta send it on the bike
but you gotta hold back
just a tiny bit and that'’s
kinda. I mean. what I did.
So I think I was like
the last one
or the second to last one
to dive in the water.
Okay. I'’m way behind.
I need to hurry up.
And Tia Toomey'’s actually gonna
be the last into the water here.
I was still on the bike
and everyone had gotten off the
bike and jumped into the water
and they'’re like 20 meters
in front of me
and I was like. "Uh oh."
I went out way to slow
in my first attempt.
The best swimmers
need to take advantage
of the hardest part
of this event
which is that straight
50-meter swim down the pool.
♪
Noah Ohlsen and Sam Kwant.
the first two out of the pool
onto their GHDs.
They have to do 10 of these
and then 10 slam balls.
And when you look at GHDs
and an assault bike.
how often do you see anyone
have the ability
to work out with those
at the pool?
♪
The med ball slam was probably
one of the hardest parts
of that workout just because
you had come out of the water
soaking wet and you could not
hold on to the slam ball.
It slips out of your hand
and that'’s the danger
of coming to the slam ball wet.
Noah had a clean run.
Mat slipped.
and that was
the difference between
a first and second place finish
for the first interval of four.
All right. even though the bike
is gonna get really tough.
I can still do this.
Davidsdottir and Adams are in.
Haley Adams
with the fastest time
by fourth tenths of a second.
Haley used to swim.
Tia'’s an amazing swimmer
and Kat'’s a good swimmer.
I wasn'’t sure I was gonna
stack up against them.
Now they will rest
until the four-minute mark
and they will do the event
in reverse order.
Swim '’N' Stuff was a particular
workout stimulus
going one direction and
then at the turnaround point.
doing it reverse
was just enough of a twist
to make it a different workout
coming the other direction.
♪
Interval 2 is underway.
Remember. your cumulative time
is your final score
and these guys don'’t know
what their cumulative score is.
♪
There was no pacing.
We know that I'’m really at GHDs.
swimming. and all machines.
so I just sent it. literally.
♪
Look at the speed
from Haley Adams.
Haley'’s GHD sit-ups
are in another world fast.
Right now they are all
neck and neck.
Ohlsen'’s off. Kwant's off.
♪
There was a beach we were gonna
use called Manresa Beach
we were looking at
and a surfer was killed
by a great white
on Manresa Beach.
and I was like. "Oh man.
let'’s move it to a pool."
♪
Here comes Tia Toomey.
the best swimmer
in the women'’s field
and it'’s not even close.
♪
If you'’re not going hard
on that assault bike.
those calories just don'’t move.
You gotta go.
there'’s no pacing here.
Sam did a phenomenal job.
Sam hammered that assault bike.
♪
Fraser'’s across.
Kwant is across.
Toomey is done and she is in.
And Haley Adams right her.
After the second round.
I could tell all the other guys.
when they got out of the water
and hopped on the bike.
they weren'’t cranking on it
like I was.
I got a shot at this as long
as I keep my breakfast down.
'’cause that was
the only problem.
Two rounds in.
you like what you'’re seeing?
Yeah. for sure.
look at the pain and fatigue.
look at the body language.
Look how hard Mat'’s breathing.
This is exactly
what needed to happen.
This next one
is gonna be a gut check
and then the fourth one
is nasty.
♪
With Sam Kwant right now.
your event leader Fraser
in second. Ohlsen third.
The third round is where
it just like. hit you.
You still gotta push the bike
as if it'’s the end of the event.
There'’s no option here.
And then you start or finish
with an assault bike sprint.
This crushed '’em.
it was fantastic.
If you haven'’t been
on the assault bike
or at least done
an all out sprint.
it takes a second
for it to register
and then suddenly
you'’re just crippled.
♪
You'’re not gonna be able
to breathe.
you'’re gonna be filled
with lactic acid.
and now you have to jump
into a pool and not drown.
Coming out of the bike.
I had no air left in my lungs.
That was the first time
I was like. "Oh God."
Tia Toomey is in.
Davidsdottir might pull ahead
of Haley.
Yep. Davidsdottir
went touch and go.
Kwant is done
and so unofficially. his lead
will be 11 seconds on Fraser
going into the final interval.
♪
Kwant just has to keep Fraser
basically next to him.
Ten seconds is all
he can afford to lose.
Tia Toomey is in the lead
in the pool.
Haley Adams is looking
to gain some points
on Katrin Davidsdottir
and make that race
for second place overall
a little more interesting.
This is it. this is the end
of the event.
It'’s 15 cals
on the assault bike.
it'’s a full send to the finish.
♪
Had to beat Mat
in at least one of them.
He held on like
really consistently
across all four.
♪
Fraser'’s in.
Kwant is in.
So Sam Kwant only surrenders
two seconds.
so Sam Kwant is gonna win
this event.
He'’s probably gonna find himself
in second place overall.
Toomey'’s gonna win the event
and she is in.
Now. Haley Adams is in
so she'’s gonna pick up 20
on Katrin Davidsdottir
as Davidsdottir comes across.
-Overall standings.
-Whoa!
Top two remain the same.
Haley Adams now moves into third
ahead of Kari Pearce.
but only by 20 points.
Second through fifth
on the men and the women
is this giant
tumultuous rollercoaster.
♪
That was the most
painful workout
of the weekend so far for me.
Oh. man.
That was a disgusting combo
of like...
slamming the bike.
not being able to breathe
in the water.
-Ow.
-The third one.
the assault bike.
I thought I was gonna drown.
Yeah. that was
the hardest one for me.
Yeah. I was like. "This is it.
This is when it happens."
-How was it. big dog?
-It was bad.
They'’re bad.
It'’s good though.
-Good job. buddy.
-Thanks.
I just rather keep my breakfast
down going to the last one.
Did you see what
Tommy Marquez posted?
-No.
-Oh my God.
-I was cackling last night.
-Oh. the Fast and Furious quote?
-Yes.
-That'’s--like when I came off
the line.
that'’s the first thing I said.
Oh my God. I was dying laughing.
-Never get out of your car.
-Too soon. Junior.
Are you fucking old enough
to know Fast and Furious?
-Yes. I do.
-The original Fast and Furious?
-The first one.
-Not Fast and Furious 14
where they'’re jumping out
of helicopters.
-The first one.
-The real one.
I'’m pretty sure--
wait. what was that one?
-The one with the green Eclipse.
-Oh yeah. yes!
"You almost had me?
You never had your car."
Uh. when Jesse drag raced
and he'’s like.
"Too soon. Junior."
That was him when he passed me
on the ninth round.
Some of the boys have said
toughest event so far.
Oh really?
-Uh. nah.
-Or the one that just felt
the worst afterwards.
Nah. I wouldn'’t say that. um...
That was a good one.
We'’ll have to wait until
this very last workout today.
Does this last day of the games
feel like other last days
of the games?
I think so.
Like. you know. you'’re excited.
Excited to see
what the last workout is.
excited to like see friends
and family.
have some time of a normal life
of like.
having balance.
♪
Event 11 is
the Sprint Sled Sprint.
Couldn'’t be simpler. Bill.
We'’re just gonna
run down the field
and then we'’re gonna grab
a sled. push that 100 yards.
and then sprint back 105 pounds
through the back area.
♪
There'’s a pattern with people
hating on certain events
that Dave actually likes.
so Dave. naturally.
just brings them back. and
the biggest controversy in 2019
was the Sled Sprint Bar
Muscle-Up event
and the sprint event only
because that was the event
that cut down to 10.
So what Dave did. he'’s like.
"Okay. well. I'’m gonna take
the top two
that everybody hated.
I'’m gonna put 'em together."
Can you tell me the significance
from last year?
Oh. fuck yeah.
[laughing]
♪
Three. two. one. and it was
just empty the tank.
♪
Sprinting. had some
good experiences.
had some bad experiences.
you know?
♪
You needed to have a good start
but you wanted to make sure
that you had enough
in the tank to be able
to push that sled
as fast as you could.
I feel like we were all together
pretty much on the first 100.
but then when
we got on the sled.
that'’s really when
it started to matter.
Tia Toomey. look at that power.
that drive.
That middle sled sprint
was where you either fell off
or made your move.
Yeah. I could see Tia
out of the corner of my eye.
We were pretty neck and neck
for a while on the sled.
Sled push.
had some bad experiences
and some bad experiences. so...
Mat Fraser and Sam Kwant
using that same technique
that we saw with Brooke Wells.
and they have taken the lead.
♪
I saw the guys pulling away.
I'’m like. "How's this happening.
what'’s going on?
Like. I'’m pushing so hard."
Final sprint down the field.
I look at the videos
and my legs just look like
they'’re not right.
Bambi legs going on.
I'’m trying to like.
extend and explode.
and it'’s like my ass cheeks
are like. "Nah. dog.
We'’re out."
It'’s hysterical to watch
'’cause you've just been like.
pounding forward and then
everyone'’s kind of like...
Mat Fraser just ahead
of Sam Kwant.
It'’s just gonna be
will and determination
that'’s gonna get you
over that line.
Toomey looks like she'’s opening
up a lead on Brooke Wells.
But I knew she was breathing
down my neck
and she wanted that first.
So Tia Toomey is gonna cruise
to her ninth event victory.
Fraser looking like
he'’s gonna hang on
but this is huge for Sam Kwant
as he looks to hang on
to second place.
Left foot. left foot. left foot.
We hit the finish line.
I dive my left foot forward.
Sam threw his right foot and
the trip timer'’s on the left.
And that'’s gonna be
a photo finish. wow!
I was just trying to give
everything I had
and I think it was
pretty darn close.
but I put the wrong leg forward.
Mat Fraser by four tenths
of a second over Sam Kwant.
Justin Medeiros will take third.
Ohlsen in fourth
and Jeff Adler in fifth.
♪
Mat. you won that
by .3 seconds.
Woo!
One event remains at the
2020 Reebok CrossFit Games.
Dave Castro has been billing it
as the toughest final event
in history.
We'’re gonna move from
Morgan Hill down the 101
to the ranch
in Aromas. California.
The games began there in 2007.
They'’re going to end there
in 2020.
♪
Well. we'’re taking a very
significant hero workout. Murph.
and we'’re doing a really
plussed up variant of it.
When he started to announce it
and he'’s like.
"Oh. it'’s the hero workout
of hero workouts."
And I was like. "Okay.
obviously that has to be Murph."
Okay. the final event
for the 2020 CrossFit Games
is Atalanta.
We'’ve introduced
the name to you guys.
Now we'’re gonna fill in
the details.
I wanted a name that was
a little more lasting
and had something significant
about it.
I thought why not go with
some of the Greek heroes.
some of the mythological heroes.
When he announced it.
I was like. "Oh no."
That was a pretty gnarly event
and to throw the weight vest
on there. it just made it
even gnarlier.
You potentially
are on the podium.
-Yeah.
-Does that mean anything.
to be [muffled audio]?
Oh yeah. yeah. definitely.
very cool.
Gotta finish this workout first
before I get on the podium.
Yeah. I would like
to be on the podium.
Kind of just comes down
to like logistics. I think.
Think I just have to do my best.
I was feeling that really
extreme fatigue in my body.
No. yeah. I said to Max
this is the type of workout
that'’s crazy enough that like.
anything could happen. you know?
I remember I went up to Noah
and I was like.
"Noah. this should be
a good one for you."
'’cause he also did really well
and he'’s like.
"Um. I don'’t think this workout
is good for anyone."
I was very excited
for that last event.
Anything that'’s just work.
This was weapons grade CrossFit.
This was something that you
as a normal person
should never do.
The podium just got like.
a little closer.
♪
Now. Tia and I.
all the time with workouts.
say to each other
in the beginning. I'’m like.
"Hey. you'’re not gonna go fast.
are you?"
And she'’s like. "No. are you?"
I'’m like. "No. we'll both.
we'’ll both sandbag
this together."
And then we start
and then immediately.
we'’re racing each other.
Every day at training.
they'’re turning up
and they'’re being present
and then focusing on that day
and then maximizing that day.
and I think--
sorry. I don'’t think. I know
the fact that they apply
themselves daily
to that particular task
and maximize that
has allowed them to show
and shine under the lights.
♪
Doing it together
like day in. day out.
we went through so much rubbish
when it came to
not being able to have a gym
to train out of.
We got through all
the adversity together.
Why not finish it together?
♪
Are you watching a blowout?
Are you watching the most boring
CrossFit Games ever
because it'’s a blowout?
No. you are watching the two
greatest CrossFit athletes
to ever step on the floor
on both the men
and the women'’s side.
You get to see this in person.
you get to watch this live.
♪
Atalanta is underway.
One mile run.
Kari Pearce was a couple places
out of podium.
Kari had to win the event.
I remember Murph back in 2016.
everybody just like--
pshh--they'’re off.
And so I like sprint
and then I'’m like.
"I don'’t hear anybody."
I'’m like. "Anybody there?"
Mat Fraser and Tia Toomey
running this together
right now and in the back.
And I'’ve never started a workout
at the back of the group before.
I'’ve always pushed
and elbowed my way
into the front of the line.
I knew I had to win the workout.
and then someone or two people
had to be between me and Haley
for me to get on the podium.
Here comes Haley Adams.
One hundred handstand push-ups.
♪
I was very aware that Justin
was going to be the one
that I needed to stay ahead of
in order to get up
onto the podium.
because he was in third place
going into that event.
♪
Noah had to win the event
and had to beat me
by more than the spot.
So someone had to finish
in-between us.
Kari Pearce is making quick work
of the handstand push-ups
and now she is in the lead.
It'’s the final workout
of the CrossFit Games.
The two champions.
they'’ve already secured
their spot
as the fittest on Earth.
and they'’re just
taking their time.
taking in the moment.
We did sets of five of just.
"You go. I go. you go."
As soon as she kicked down.
I kicked up.
soon as I kicked down.
she kicked up.
Kari Pearce is done with
her 100 handstand push-ups
and now on to the 200 pistols.
I got off the wall like.
in a decent lead
ahead of everybody else.
And now Fraser and Toomey
moving on to the pistols.
Constantly like checking in
with each other.
"How you doing?
Yup. good. good. cool."
And as far as the gender battle
goes right now.
four of the women are ahead
of the men right now.
I heard my coach like.
"Don'’t rest.
keep going. set a rhythm."
-Right to it!
-And I was just like.
"I just wanna rest
for a second."
Kari Pearce is just about done
with those 200 pistols
and she will now move on
to the 300 pull-ups.
And I was so curious about what
the first set
was gonna look like.
Are we gonna sets of five
and. man. she just--
-Ten.
-Wow. okay.
All right.
We'’re going with ten. okay.
When we got to the pull-ups.
I felt like.
you know. this is ours now.
Davidsdottir has closed the gap
with Haley Adams.
So 3 women on their sets
of 300 pull-ups.
I just like kept chipping away
and then I was chipping away
pretty fast.
♪
I think by the time
we got to the pull-ups.
I had caught up...
and was probably in second place
behind Mat.
Two champions. rep for rep.
About 100 pull-ups in.
when I realize I'’m not even
halfway
and my hands are gushing blood
and I can barely hang on
to the bar.
-Haley is tough as nails.
-Oh. she'’s a beast.
Tough as nails. I'’ve seen
so many athletes rip hands
like that and go to their knees
and cry in their milk.
and Haley hasn'’t batted an eye.
she hasn'’t complained.
In fact. she'’s doing bigger
pull-up sets
than she did
when we saw earlier.
This girl is so dang tough.
Quitting was not an option.
I just had to get a little bit
more chalk than usual.
Kari gets a massive lead
on both the handstand push-ups
and the pistols.
and her coach is just
constantly screaming at her.
-Keep moving. mama!
-Well. then Ben Bergeron
starts to use those too and
Ben starts yelling at Katrin.
Kat. we'’re gonna leave no doubt!
And it starts to go back and
forth between the two coaches
as they'’re yelling back
and forth at their athletes.
At one point I was like.
"Let Ben'’s words fuel you!"
Like. I was just like trying
to pull anything I could.
Especially as I was getting
farther on the pull-ups
and I could hear him say like.
"Katrin'’s catching you!"
Davidsdottir now nine reps
behind Kari Pearce.
It was kinda crazy
that I ended up chipping away
at Kari Pearce
in a pull-up workout.
So that was kinda cool.
'’cause she's like phenomenal
at pulling.
I heard him say like.
"Right when you finish
the pull-ups. you gotta go."
That'’s it for Kari Pearce.
one mile remains.
-She'’s gotta run for her life.
-And she is. and she is.
Like she'’s being chased down
by a gun.
Go. go. go!
It'’s right there for you!
♪
Kari had left a little bit
in front of me
but not too far front
that I would let her go.
And I remember like.
my legs weren'’t working.
I was just kinda letting '’em
flush and in my head
I'’m like. "Do I go. do I not?
Like. do I catch her. do I not?"
Katrin Davidsdottir
who just won the ranch loop
two days prior and crushed it.
and to Kari
who did not crush it.
In no way. shape. or form
did I think Kari
was gonna be able
to hold off Katrin.
I know she was like catching up
and I turn around
and I'’m like. "Okay.
she'’s still not there."
I'’m like.
"Maybe I can slow down."
but I was like.
"No. don'’t slow down.
like don'’t give yourself
that out.
This is the last workout.
You can rest for months
after this."
♪
She is running for her life.
She is running for a podium spot
that she'’s never gotten before.
Noah Ohlsen has tied Mat Fraser
and now leads for the men.
I was really committed
to being aggressive
and finishing this thing
with no regrets.
Ohlsen on the run.
Mat Fraser just got off
the pull-up bar as well.
I said to one of
the Games staff.
"Hey. am I first man
on the run?"
And she said. "I think so.
Man. if you'’re in
the lead right now.
I'’m pretty sure
if you win this event.
you'’re guaranteed a spot
on the podium."
♪
I remember when I finished
my number 300.
and I came down and my ref
was like. "Go. go. go!"
And I was like. "Chill."
Taking off my grips.
taking off my wristbands.
I needed Mat to beat Noah.
He was kinda easing it back off
to like have that moment
with Tia.
which was pretty awesome.
but I saw Noah leave
on that run first
and I thought my chance
was kinda. was kinda gone.
♪
Here come Fraser and Toomey.
and Fraser waited for Tia.
It was a special moment. like we
had both already won the Games.
You'’re only gonna have
a handful of moments
that you remember vividly.
Make this one of them.
Noah Ohlsen.
your leader for the men.
Mat Fraser is creeping up.
You know. we'’re running
and she'’s asking me like.
"Hey. is there anyone
coming up behind us?"
I'’m the one looking.
spotting and I'’m like.
"Nope. nope.
we'’re good. we're good.
Just so we'’re clear.
I don'’t care
about any other competitors.
We are finishing
this mile together."
When I like. came around
the last turn around.
it kind of like settled in
that like.
"You won this workout."
She not only is going to win.
but also beat every other man
to do the event.
Amazing.
And she will win Event 12.
and looking to get herself
onto the podium
and end a drought
for the United States
that has lasted since 2014.
That'’s just. that's just one
of those moments.
you know. you'’ll always remember
as a coach.
Like. that'’s just her digging
and wanting something so badly
that she just wasn'’t gonna let
anybody else take it from her.
So what Kari did
not only is the best performance
I'’ve ever seen.
she solidified herself
as the best
American female CrossFitter
of all time.
♪
-Can you pour it on my head?
-Yup.
Thank you.
[panting]
Good job. girl.
I like that workout.
[laughing]
When we got to the 800 meter
halfway turnaround point.
Mat and Tia had started
to catch up to me
and I was just kind of in
desperation mode at that point.
I was pleading with my body
to allow me to run faster
and push it and keep going.
I just was losing that battle.
Mat Fraser and Tia Toomey
have passed Noah Ohlsen.
The question now is
where is Justin Medeiros?
And with about 600 meters
to the finish line.
my coach Max met me at the fence
and pointed to Mat ahead of me
and he said.
"You need to beat him
in order to get on the podium."
And in my mind I was like.
"I know."
and I'’m trying
absolutely everything
to get my feet to move faster.
and I even made the conscious
effort to try to get them to
and I just--
I literally could not.
♪
All I have to do right now
is finish this run
and we go and we get
our silver medal
at the CrossFit Games.
Katrin Davidsdottir is going
to cross the finish line.
Davidsdottir will finish
on the podium
for the fourth time
in her career.
I won. I feel like I won.
That was my absolute best.
It was a very satisfying ending
to my season.
I can'’t even wrap my head around
what Mat did
to that final event.
He loafed the run.
broke up the handstand push-ups
and pistols and pull-ups
to make sure Tia was okay
during the whole thing
and stayed at her pace.
At the same time.
you have Noah Ohlsen
who is fighting his ass off
to have to win
to get back on the podium.
and Mat Fraser sleep-walks
through an entire event
and still runs down Noah
to win it.
Toomey and Fraser making
the turn together.
Two of the most dominant
individual performances
that we have ever seen
at the CrossFit Games.
♪
I'’m literally coming third
in an event and I'’m like.
"You know what. this is okay.
Like. I love this. I'’m really
embracing this experience
and I'’m gonna
remember this forever.
I don'’t care where
I place for this."
For them to have a moment
where they could do it
at their own pace
and to absorb
what they have achieved
was phenomenal.
♪
Mat Fraser rewrites history.
Tia Toomey continues to make it.
The perfect end to
a nearly perfect competition.
The two greatest of all time
stand alone.
They are the fittest on Earth
and the fittest in history.
♪
Haley. who was hoping to hang on
to third place overall.
and it'’s looking like
it won'’t happen.
but what a future ahead
for Haley Adams.
[indistinct remarks]
[crying]
♪
The placement
is a little bit bitter.
but we'’re gonna analyze
what we did good.
what we did wrong.
and try to improve from that.
I mean. I'’m more determined
than ever after this year
to be the best that I can be.
because I'’m not proud
of the performance
that I put on.
And that is like
the worst feeling in the world
and I just wanna work so hard
so I never have to feel
like that again.
And I had kinda no idea.
I was kinda looking around.
I mean. gave my coach
like a big old hug
and he'’s like. "Guess what."
Here comes Justin Medeiros
looking to lock up third place.
Congrats. buddy. you earned it.
I tried to kind of hold
my excitement down
and wait till it was real.
but it was super cool
to be able to step on that
podium for my first year.
Dude. I'’m super stoked
about getting second place.
The goal was the podium and
I'’m satisfied with it for now.
♪
I shed some tears at the end.
because we did it.
We finally got to the end.
and when I say we.
I mean all the athletes.
CrossFit finally were able
to pull it all together
and create a competition for us.
and everything
that we worked so hard for
throughout the year
wasn'’t for nothing.
♪
The sky'’s the limit.
It'’s how far we can take it.
how far the community
can take it.
Future under the new leadership.
under the new team is bright.
We'’re gonna
aggressively grow it.
In the ever-changing year
that has been 2020.
two things
have remained constant:
Mat Fraser and Tia Toomey.
They each add another
championship to their total.
Four for Toomey
and five for Fraser.
Happy '’cause like. we did it.
Everything over the last year.
we got over it.
♪
But then also sad
because it'’s over.
♪
This has been my life
for two years.
Two of three faces that I see
99% of the days.
Like. I see Sammy every day.
♪
And then Shane and Tia
most of the other time
are the only other people
I see or interact with.
Realizing that that chapter
of my life might be closed
was the part
that was getting to me.
♪
What'’s hard to fathom
is it'’s not just a weekend
where you see Friday.
Saturday. Sunday. 14 events.
It'’s like I was saying.
it'’s like a 24-month
for these guys.
an eight-year process.
a 10-year process.
To know that it could be an end
of an era there.
for those two athletes is...
I mean. I'’m excited.
I'’m thrilled.
I'’m all that positive stuff.
but it'’s sad.
It could be. it could be
the last time that we ever see
a male and female dominate
like them again.
♪
[fire crackling]
Like so many others that
wandered into a CrossFit gym.
I wasn'’t expecting to find
my best friends.
business partners. wife.
and countless life lessons.
I'’m leaving the sport
older. wiser.
and fitter than I'’ve ever been.
I'’m diving into the next chapter
of my life with the same
"Hard work pays off" mentality.
The only difference
is the decisions I make
will be based off more than
just my fitness performance.
I look forward to remaining a
part of the CrossFit community.
I just won'’t be doing it
from the competition floor.
[exhaling]
♪
So Tia'’s already the most
accomplished female champion
that we'’ve ever had.
But with Mat'’s retirement.
the door is open for her
to not just be
the best female champion
we'’ve ever had.
but to be the sport'’s most
dominant athlete of all time.
♪